[log drains]: update documentation with the new log drains (#968)
Scalingo/documentation: _posts/platform/app/2000-01-01-log-drain.md

layout: page
title: Add a Log Drain to your App
nav: Log Drain
modified_at: 2020-05-22 00:00:00
tags: Papertrail Logentries Logmatic Graylog logs integration
---

## Integration Purposes

Using a log management solution to gather the logs from applications and

> containers eases the work when trying to find an information.

Reviewer: We shouldn't talk about containers. We are not selling containers. We are hosting applications and databases.

> containers eases the work when trying to find an information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
containers ease the work when trying to find an information.
```

A few SaaS solutions exist such as Logentries, Logmatic.io, Papertrail or
Graylog.
You can also host such solution on Scalingo. Here is a tutorial on
[how to deploy the ELK
stack](https://scalingo.com/articles/2018/02/23/running-the-elk-stack-on-scalingo.html)
on the platform.

> Scalingo support sending applications logs using the standard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scalingo also supports sending applications logs using the standard
```

CLI](https://doc.scalingo.com/cli).

### Add a Log Drain

To add a log drain management service you have to use the `log-drains-add`
command. The parameters used depend on the chosen provider.

Below, an exhaustive list of examples of additions for each of the supported
vendors.

#### Scalingo hosted ELK stack

```bash
scalingo --app my-app log-drains-add --type elk --url https://my-user:123456789abcdef@logstash-app-name.osc-fr1.scalingo.io
```

#### Datadog
```bash
scalingo --app my-app log-drains-add --type datadog --token 123456789abcdef --drain-region eu
```
Where
* `token` parameter is the Datadog API key you can find
[here](https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#api).
* `region` parameter
is either `eu` or `us` depending on your Datadog account region.

#### Logentries

```bash
scalingo --app my-app log-drains-add --type logentries --token 123456789abcdef
```
Where `token` parameter is the logentries `LOG-TOKEN`, instructions to get
it are available on [Logentries
documentation](https://docs.logentries.com/docs/http-post).

#### OVH hosted Graylog
```bash
scalingo --app my-app log-drains-add --type ovh-graylog --token 123456789abcdef --host tag3.logs.ovh.com
```
Where

> - `token` is the graylog token

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `token`: Graylog token
```

> - `host` is the access point provided

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `host`: access point provided
```

> by ovh. Instructions to get the these variables are available on [OVH

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by OVH. Instructions to get the these variables are available on [OVH
```

layout: page
title: Add a Log Drain to your App
nav: Log Drain
modified_at: 2020-05-22 00:00:00
tags: Papertrail Logentries Logmatic Graylog logs integration
---

## Integration Purposes

Using a log management solution to gather the logs from applications ease the
work when trying to find an information.
A few SaaS solutions exist such as Logentries, Logmatic.io, Papertrail or
Graylog. You can also host such solution on Scalingo. Here is a tutorial on
[how to deploy the ELK
stack](https://scalingo.com/articles/2018/02/23/running-the-elk-stack-on-scalingo.html)
on the platform.

> Scalingo also support sending applications logs using the standard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scalingo also supports sending applications logs using the standard
```

syslog protocol over UDP, TCP or TCP+TLS.

{% note %}
Adding a log drain to an application will not disable
[scalingo logs](https://doc.scalingo.com/platform/app/logs)
{% endnote %}

## Third-Party Provider Integrations

Our system is able to send logs to the following SaaS logs processing providers:

* [Scalingo hosted ELK stack](#scalingo-hosted-elk-stack)
([how to setup]({% post_url platform/getting-started/2000-01-01-getting-started-with-elk %}))
* [Datadog](#datadog)
* [Logentries](#logentries)
* [Graylog](#ovh-hosted-graylog)
* [Papertrail](#papertrail)
* [Syslog](#syslog-tcptls)

## Configuration of your Application on Scalingo

The log drains configuration is done using the
[CLI](https://doc.scalingo.com/cli).

### Add a Log Drain

To add a log drain management service you have to use the `log-drains-add`
command. The parameters used depend on the chosen provider.

Below, an exhaustive list of examples of additions for each of the supported
vendors.

> It is possible to add multiple log drains to a single application

Reviewer: These three paragraphs does not look nice:

![Screenshot from 2020-06-03 13-39-25](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1567651/83632528-b7c8e180-a59f-11ea-9fda-22bd6fc19246.png)

Can you try to reorganize so that it's less ugly?

For example, The sentence " It is possible to add multiple log drains to a single application " should be included in the paragraph starting with "To add a log drain management service you" IMHO.

> It is possible to add multiple log drains to a single application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to add multiple log drains to a single application.
```

> #### Scalingo hosted ELK stack

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Scalingo Hosted ELK Stack
```

```bash
scalingo --app my-app log-drains-add --type elk \
  --url https://my-user:123456789abcdef@logstash-app-name.osc-fr1.scalingo.io

> ```

Reviewer: For ELK, you forgot to add the description of the `url` parameter

layout: page
title: Add a Log Drain to your App
nav: Log Drain
modified_at: 2020-05-22 00:00:00
tags: Papertrail Logentries Logmatic Graylog logs integration
---

## Integration Purposes

Using a log management solution to gather the logs from applications ease the
work when trying to find an information.
A few SaaS solutions exist such as Logentries, Logmatic.io, Papertrail or
Graylog. You can also host such solution on Scalingo. Here is a tutorial on
[how to deploy the ELK

> stack](https://scalingo.com/articles/2018/02/23/running-the-elk-stack-on-scalingo.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stack]({% post_url platform/getting-started/2000-01-01-getting-started-with-elk %})
```

on the platform.

Scalingo also supports sending applications logs using the standard
syslog protocol over UDP, TCP or TCP+TLS.

{% note %}
Adding a log drain to an application will not disable

> [scalingo logs](https://doc.scalingo.com/platform/app/logs)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Scalingo logs]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-logs %})
```

{% endnote %}

## Third-Party Provider Integrations

Our system is able to send logs to the following SaaS logs processing providers:

* [Scalingo hosted ELK stack](#scalingo-hosted-elk-stack)
([how to setup]({% post_url platform/getting-started/2000-01-01-getting-started-with-elk %}))
* [Datadog](#datadog)
* [Logentries](#logentries)
* [Graylog](#ovh-hosted-graylog)
* [Papertrail](#papertrail)

> * [Syslog](#syslog-tcptls)

Reviewer: I think we could add a word here about "What if my drain of choice is not supported ?". After this list of providers, adding a word stating that they can contact Scalingo support if they need another provider to be added.

## Configuration of your Application on Scalingo

The log drains configuration is done using the
[CLI](https://doc.scalingo.com/cli).

### Add a Log Drain

To add a log drain management service you have to use the `log-drains-add`
command. The parameters used depend on the chosen provider.
It is possible to add multiple log drains to a single application.

Below, an exhaustive list of examples of additions for each of the supported
vendors.

> #### Scalingo hosted ELK Stack

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Scalingo Hosted ELK Stack
```

```bash
scalingo --app my-app log-drains-add --type elk \
  --url https://my-user:123456789abcdef@logstash-app-name.osc-fr1.scalingo.io
```
Where
* `url`: authentication url to access to the ELK server.
More information on [ELK Stack on

>  Scalingo](https://doc.scalingo.com/platform/getting-started/getting-started-with-elk)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 Scalingo]({% post_url platform/getting-started/2000-01-01-getting-started-with-elk %})
```

work when trying to find an information.
A few SaaS solutions exist such as Logentries, Logmatic.io, Papertrail or
Graylog. You can also host such solution on Scalingo. Here is a tutorial on
[how to deploy the ELK
stack]({% post_url platform/getting-started/2000-01-01-getting-started-with-elk %})
on the platform.

Scalingo also supports sending applications logs using the standard
syslog protocol over UDP, TCP or TCP+TLS.

{% note %}
Adding a log drain to an application will not disable
[Scalingo logs]({% post_url platform/app/2000-01-01-logs %})
{% endnote %}

## Third-Party Provider Integrations

Our system is able to send logs to the following SaaS logs processing providers:

* [Scalingo hosted ELK stack](#scalingo-hosted-elk-stack)
([how to setup]({% post_url platform/getting-started/2000-01-01-getting-started-with-elk %}))
* [Datadog](#datadog)
* [Logentries](#logentries)
* [Graylog](#ovh-hosted-graylog)
* [Papertrail](#papertrail)
* [Syslog](#syslog-tcptls)

If you would like another provider to be added, feel free to contact Scalingo
support.

## Configuration of your Application on Scalingo

The log drains configuration is done using the

> [CLI](https://doc.scalingo.com/cli).

Author: @EtienneM is it possible to use `post_url` in this case ?

Reviewer: `post_url platform/cli/2000-01-01-start`?

## Configuration of your Application on Scalingo

The log drains configuration will be done using the [CLI

> ](https://doc.scalingo.com/cli).

Reviewer: The `]` should not be on a new line. It adds a space on the final output.

### Add a Log Drain

To add a log drain management service you will have to use the `log-drains-add`
command.

> Below, the list of available parameters:

Reviewer: Why a new line here? Either you need a new paragraph and you need an extra new line, or you are in the same paragraph and the new line is not necessary.

> * `type`: Communication protocol

Reviewer: I don't find this list of parameter useful. Let's say I'm a user of the platform and I want to add a log drain on my application. Do I care about the `url` flag if I want to use Datadog?

Maybe it would be better to add a link to the correct example in the list of providers of the section "Third-party Provider integrations"? And instead of displaying the various examples of adding a log drain as a list, each provider is a section you can link to. What do you think?

* `url`: URL of self hosted ELK (optional)
* `host`: Host of logs management service (optional)
* `port`: Port of logs management service (optional)
* `token`: Used by certain vendor for authentication (optional)
* `drain-region`: Used by certain logs management service to identify the region
of their servers (optional)

The parameters used will depend on the chosen provider.

TODO(pc): check if we reference to elk self hosted documentation:
https://doc.scalingo.com/platform/getting-started/getting-started-with-elk

Below, an exhaustive list of examples of additions for each of the supported

> vendors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
vendors.
```

> * Scalingo hosted ELK stack:

Reviewer: Displaying the different supported vendors as a list is not really sexy in the final output:https://documentation-service-pr968.osc-fr1.scalingo.io/platform/app/log-drain#add-a-log-drain

Author: I split the bullet list into multiple sections but I don't find the result really sexy yet.
Do you have any suggestions ?

    is either `eu` or `us` depending on your Datadog account region.

* Logentries:
    ```bash
    scalingo --app my-app log-drains-add --type logentries --token 123456789abcdef
    ```
    Where `token` parameter is the logentries `LOG-TOKEN`, instructions to get
    it are available on [Logentries
    documentation](https://docs.logentries.com/docs/http-post).

* OVH hosted Graylog:
    ```bash
    scalingo --app my-app log-drains-add --type ovh-graylog --token 123456789abcdef --host tag3.logs.ovh.com
    ```
    Where
    - `token` is the graylog token
    - `host` is the access point provided
    by ovh. Instructions to get the these variables are available on [OVH
    documentation](https://docs.ovh.com/fr/logs-data-platform/quick-start/).

* Papertrail:
    ```bash
    scalingo --app my-app log-drains-add --type papertrail --host logs2.papertrailapp.com --port 12345
    ```
    `host` and `port` are the log host and port number shown under [log
    destination](https://papertrailapp.com/account/destinations).

* Syslog TCP+TLS:
    ```bash
    scalingo --app my-app log-drains-add --type syslog --host custom.logstash.com --port 12345
    ```

### List Log Drains

> As you can add multiple log drains by application, you can list them with the
> command:

Reviewer: I don't like the wording here. Suggestion:

```suggestion
You can list all log drains of an applicatino with the `log-drains` command:
```

Author: I didn't like it too. Thanks for this suggestion :+1:

```bash
scalingo --app my-app log-drains
```

> Here an example of the output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example of the output:
```

```
+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                URL                                 |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
| tcp+tls://logs.papertrailapp.com:10333                             |
| ovh://:878e091a-655c-4d40-b4be-72609f8949d0@tag1.logs.ovh.com:6514 |
+--------------------------------------------------------------------+
```

### Delete a Log Drain

To delete a drain, you will have to provide the URL to delete.
You can get it by listing the logs drain of an application ([list

> command](https://doc.scalingo.com/platform/app/log-drain#list-log-drains))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
command](#list-log-drains))
```
